Middleware:
It is an intermediary

Request  ->   Middleware   ->   Response 

in Express
Middleware in Express are functions that come into play after the server receives the request and before the response is sent to the client.


Common middleware functions:
.methodOverride
.bodyParser
.express.urlencoded
.express.static

app.use(express.urlencoded({ extended: true}));
app.use(express.static(path.join(__dirname, "/public")));


Properties middleware have:
1. it can access req, res object
2. chaining is possible in middleware means one middleware passes control to the other  middleware
3. it can stop req res cycle by sending res so it never reach our api or route 






What do middlewares do?
Middleware functions can perform the following tasks:
.Executes any code.
.Make changes to the request and the response objects.
.End the request-response cycle by sending response.
.Call the next middleware function in the stack.

// Our 1st Middleware:
// app.use(middleware-function)
// we use app.use for middleware because we want it works with all request
// if we dont define the the path in app.use([path], [callback]) then it(middleware) will execute for all paths

app.use((req, res) => {
    console.log("Hi, i am middleware");
})

  
Middleware have two choices:
1. send response (execution stops)
2. call next middleware  (using next()) (pass control to next middleware)






Using next:
The next middleware function is commonly denoted by a variable named next.

If the current middleware function does not end the request-response cycle, it must call next() to pass control to the next middleware function.


based on the usage middleware is divided into multiple types:
1. Application lavel
2. Router level
3. error-handling middleware
4. built-in middleware
5. third party middleware

middleware always run even if the path is wrong or not created middleware always run irrespective of what is sent in the body or how the request is structured


next() is consider as the end of the middleware but we can write code after next() but it is not good practice
that why we write - return next(), after this whatever is written after next() will not execute

app.use(middleware-function) will execute for all request like get, post, put, patch and delete




Creating Utility Middleware:
Logger
